# ABSTRACT

While medical research has made significant strides in developing tools for the management of chronic disease, there has not been much official focus on developing methods of prevention. Incidence of chronic disease in America is steadily rising, and while Americans may be living longer, they are not necessarily living as comfortably, with people often dependent on an assortment of life-long drugs and procedures. In opposition to this grim state of affairs are modern, somewhat-radical movements like Biohacking and Wellness, which question potentially problematic habits of society and medicine. Unfortunately, the tone of such movements is indeed radical, with ambiguous research and statistics being thrown around with dogmatic zeal, ultimately creating a great deal of confusion. Such movements, however, are critical—chronic disease is indeed heavily influenced by factors of diet and lifestyle. These are the areas on which medical research should focus and then clearly inform the public. 

This project is concerned primarily with the effect of diet on disease in America. Toward that end, it considers both American food consumption and American food production, as well as trends in two particular chronic diseases well known for being influenced by diet—heart disease and diabetes. Tracking each of these over a span of 50 to 100 years, it consists of a timeline exploring the historical changes in the American food supply and how this has correlated with the rate of disease. The primary consideration is the changing nutrient content of American food as a whole, followed by the changing distribution and diversity of American crops. These highly quantitative figures are punctuated by qualitative information, like important innovations in American agriculture (such as the invention and subsequent ban of DDT) and major American diet trends (such as Atkins, or Low Fat). The project superimposes all of this information to create an honest depiction of food and disease in America today and in the past. Avoiding sensationalist statistics and statements, it does not attempt to overly simplify or reduce the complexities that do indeed exist. Rather, curating multiple previously uncombined sources of data and portraying them clearly and plainly, it invites interested readers to discover relationships between them. 